#summary Presentation rough notes.
#labels Phase-Requirements

Link to [http://parrot-im.googlecode.com/files/parrotIM_PresentationOne.ppt ROUGH copy] of presentation. It has no slide transitions yet, nor background, and looks ugly. Will fix. Need to change content, make it less wordy, and associate speech to the slide. Ending is rough. Please make any comments with regards to content, and give ideas for anything. Feel free to make changes to the file or edit this page. Possible edits:
 # Suggestion for Theme Background
 #
 #


==Introduction==
 * Communication
    * Why make another chat client? There are already many programs that do the following:
       * have many users and have decent functionality (e.g. MSN, AOL, ICQ)
       * can work with multiple protocols (e.g. Trillian, Pidgin)
       * ... Twitter, Facebook, IRC...
    * Flaws in existing programs:
       * Some allow you to only communicate over one protocol
          * If you have friends that use different programs, you may not be able to communicate with each other
       * Do you trust your instant messenger?
          * Many clients are proprietary, and you have no way of knowing the source code
       * Confusing--too many buttons, but none of the buttons do what you want
          * Need a simple interface without sacrificing function
       * Customization
          * Certain more 'computer-literate' individuals often like to personalize their own software, instant messengers included
       * Most of them have ads and spywares
    * How we communicate...
       * Should be:
          * fun
          * easy
          * accessible 
    * Can do better. We need a feature-rich, but easy-to-use, chat client that works with multiple protocols and operates efficiently. All of this should be open source.

==The Solution==

 * We present: Parrot Instant Messenger
    * Main goals
       * easy to use - Running Parrot IM should allow you to chat to everyone who uses a computer. No technical skills should be required--the interface should be intuitive and clear.  Users shouldn't be made to navigate through a bunch of useless tabs, buttons, and flashy ads just to find the chat log button.
       * full of useful features - Want to let your friends know what you're doing, but don't want to announce it to the world? Get the Chatbot to tell them for you! Forgot where you're supposed to meet your friend? Don't parse the chat logs with your eyes! Search for "friday meet Alice where" and find out in less than a second. Parrot IM can do anything you need, but will not complicate your chatting.
       * be enjoyable! - Chatting in real life is fun. Why should it be anything less on the computer? With Parrot IM, you have all the tools you need at your fingertips to express yourself. You do not need a technical background to use our software.

 * Feature list
    * Refer to architectural diagram, talk about individual features

==Behind the Scenes==

 * What's in a name; why Parrot IM?
    * You can teach a parrot to say anything in any language. Parrot IM is similar in that you can use it to do many things; you do not need to rely on an array of programs to talk to your friends.
    * Parrots are attractive, and so is our user interface. Chatting is more than just protocols and text. 

 * Who is responsible for creating Parrot IM?
    * Well, Pirates, of course!
    * Talk about our group.
       * All learning to be software engineers.
       * Group organized into subgroups, but everyone has an equal voice
       * Roles...
    * Problem description
       * ...
    * Vision of solution
       * ...
 * ...


=Speech Matched Up With Slides=

 # Title Page
  * Introduce ourselves.
  * Ask audience: how many people have used MSN, AIM, Facebook, ICQ, Twitter, IRC, Pidgin. How many of you know other communication tools I have not mentioned?
  * There's a lot out there, and you can do almost anything you want on them, so....
 # "We're making another chat program"
  * Instead of expanding the pool of instant messengers, shouldn't we be consolidating them, and agree on one, good messenger to use universally? 
 # "Why make another chat program?"
  * Before we answer this, let's get a picture of what's already out there.
  * Just as you all have indicated, everyone uses online communication tools these days. Many people use multiple programs or websites just to stay in touch with all of their friends. 
  * But there are also some very smart programs that do this for you; one program can connect to many networks, and you can chat with anybody who is online on anything.
  * Not only can you chat, but you can share pictures, send files, talk, see, and play games with your friends. Not only that, but each program has its own unique features.
  * And all of this ... is free. Well, mostly. You can use most of these programs for no monetary cost at all.
 # However, they have their flaws
  * But, nothing in life is perfect, and computer programs are certainly not the exception.
  * There are a few minor flaws and grimaces with some programs. For instance, some programs restrict you to talking to friends in just one network. To talk to others, you need to download multiple programs.
 # More flaws...
  * Also, even though most programs are free, they are mostly not open sourced. This means that you don't actually know what they are doing on your computer. You trust that they aren't data mining your private data, and you hope that they aren't slowing down your computer with inefficient code.
 # Another flaw
  * And then some programs just are filled with so much stuff, that it's challenging to do what you actually want. In a perfect world, you would control what appears on your program's interface, not the company's advertising partners.
 # Communication should be...
  * For whatever program you chose to use, online communication should be fun, easy, and useful. Just like in real life.
 # What is the solution?
  * Now, how does all of this relate to making another chat program?
  * There is a void that can be filled.
  * A new messaging client that is easy to learn to use, attractive, and filled with useful features would be successful if it could connect you to all of your friends, regardless of their networks. Oh, and this program would have to be efficient and transparent also. 
 # We present to you... 
  * We are creating this program.
  * It is called Parrot Instant Messenger, or Parrot IM for short.
 # Parrot IM is...
  * Let's take a look at how our program will differ from the existing programs...