#summary Final Release of Parrot IM

= Introduction =
A desktop application that connects you to friends on multiple networks, and offers useful, fun features such as tabbed conversations, programmable chatbot, chatlog and buddy search, and custom UI.

Highlighted on this page are all changes since previous releases. At the bottom of the page, you can find our updated Design, User Requirements, and QA documents, originally required from Assignment 2.

= Executable and Source Code =

  * (link to .jar)
  * (link to tags/final)

= Getting Started Screencast =

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d2xIbUwfJuw"/>

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8oAv3Gb0CSM"/>


= User Acceptance Test =

  * [UserAcceptanceTest Testing procedures]
  * [UserAcceptanceReports Reports]

= Details =

  * [ParrotIMInterface  User interface progress]
 
= Data =

  * [a5_featuresImplemented Features Implemented]
  * [a5_metrics Metrics for all versions]

= Presentation = 
 
  * [a5_script Script] for presentation. Delete this after done.

= Documents =
  * [a5_requirements Requirements Document]
  * [a5_design Design Document]
  * [a5_qa Quality Assurance Plan]

= Known Bugs =

 * [a5_knownIssues Known Bugs]

 * Smack (for XMPP) had authentication bugs
 * JOscar (for AIM and ICQ) had poor documentation such that not all the features are available
 * MSNM (for MSN) rarely threw exceptions on errors such that users cannot distinguish if they are actually connected it or not. It can only retrieve up to 115 contacts, after that it will throw a null exception.

= Feedback from real users =

= A post-mortem analysis of our team and project =

*What project management techniques worked well, and what worked not so well?* 

 * We used to depend on one leader only, but during implementation found that we needed more leadership from our entire team. Later on, we used a more democratic approach in which everyone in our team demonstrated project management leadership skills.

*What were the major technical problems you encountered?* 

 * We were not familiar with the libraries that we had to use at first. It took awhile to figure out how to use them. Sometimes we encountered some weird bugs and apparently they were caused by our API.

*What were the major "human" problems you encountered while working as a team?* 

 * Miscommunication is a big issue, and that happens sometimes.

*If you were to do the project over again, what would you do differently? What would you have done the same? What advice would you give to next year's students?* 

 * Keep the working environment fun and friendly. Everyone should feel rewarded of what they have done. Every single person in the team has a precious existence for the project progress no matter what role they play.

 * This is a really fun team. We have fun together, tease each other while doing all the work. If I were to do the same, I would really love to keep this cheerful environment.