#summary Requirements Document: a user manual that is useful for both end-users and system designers

= Introduction =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].

= Features =

Below is the list of features and indications of progress.

[Feature_GUI Graphical Graphical User Interface]: No change. Implemented.

[Feature_FriendList Friend List]: The Friend List is currently set to show the online status of the user, and indicates whether the friends are away, busy, offline, or blocked. The list is sorted alphabetically, but users that are more online than others receive higher priority at the top of the list. We do not have search function yet. GUI is provided. 

[Feature_LiveInstantMessaging Live Instant Messaging]: Implemented. Currently can bring up a chat window and use tabbed chatting to select between open conversations. Users can send and receive messages.

[Feature_XMPP XMPP Protocol]: Google Talk functionality implemented. Jabber functionality is enabled, but not fully supported yet.

[Feature_Chatbot Chatbot]: To enable or disable Chatbot is in the Contact menu, not in the chatWindow. Implemented. The chatbot currently is set with a list of common phrases to generate responses for. There is no way to customize the messages, yet.

[Feature_ProfileSystem Profile System]: Implemented. Can add multiple accounts to the profile. Changes are saved in the database. However, logging in functionality is only supported for one account, currently.

[Feature_FontCustomization Font Customization]: GUI elements have been implemented, but it is not functional yet. This is due to XMPP not supporting fonts being sent to buddies.

[Feature_AutoSignIn Auto Sign In]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_AvatarPicture Avatar picture]: GUI elements implemented. That is, users can select the image file on their computer by clicking on the current avatar. However, doing so will not have any effect. Not completely implemented.

[Feature_TabbedWindows Tabbed Windows]: No change. Implemented. Users can click on tabs on the left-hand side of the chat window to toggle between open conversations.

[Feature_BlockingAnotherUser Blocking Another User]: Implemented via a work-around. While the proper method of blocking users via XMPP is not adhered to, we have devised a way to achieve the same effect of blocking a user on one computer. The user is technically removed from the friend list, but is stored in the local computer's database. This allows the GUI to show that the user has been blocked, and allow for the user to be unblocked easily. The blocked user cannot see the online status of the person who blocked him or her.

[Feature_Status Status]: Implemented. Users can set their status and state, and see the status of others on the buddy list. The states are colour coded on both the buddy list and the chat window so the user can quickly know how available their friend is.

[Feature_ChatLog Chat Log]: No change. Implemented. Not searchable, yet.

[Feature_SearchEngine Search Engine]: Not implemented yet. GUI is provided for buddy list, not yet implemented for chatlog.

[Feature_TwitterAndICQProtocols Twitter and ICQ Protocols]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_IsTyping Is Typing]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_Emoticons Emoticons]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_Spellchecker Spellchecker]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_ConferenceChatting Conference Chatting]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_FileTransfer File Transfer]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_SoundNotification Sound Notification]: Not implemented yet.

Feature_UICustomization UICustomization]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_AdditionalProtocolModules Additional Protocol Modules]: Not implement yet.

[Feature_OfflineMessaging Offline Messaging]: Implemented by means of the XMPP protocol. No specific GUI messages show to indicate which messages are offline messages, though.

[Feature_AdvancedAndSimplifiedModes Advanced And Simplified Modes]: The switch is not implemented yet.

[Feature_SpamFilter Spam Filter]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_MultipleOSCompatibility Multiple OS Compatibility]: Packaging not designed to install on all OSs, but will run via a .jar file on Mac, Windows, and Linux.

[Feature_LanguageLocalization Language Localization]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_EmailNotification Email Notification]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_SlashCommands Slash Commands]: Not implemented yet.

= Intended Audience =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].

= Non-Functional Requirements =

Noted are only the changed non-functional requirements:

=== Product Requirements ===
  * *Performance Requirements:* The program will occupy between *30 MB* and *50 MB* of RAM while running.

(Rest unchanged.)

=== Organizational Requirements === 
  * *Process Standards:* Conventions detailed on the Parrot IM website will be followed with regards to naming and style conventions.

(Rest unchanged.)

=== External requirements === 

(All unchanged)

Metrics for specifying non-functional requirements:

=== The Non-functional Requirements Table ===
|| Property || Measure ||
|| Size || Hard disk Requirements = The program will take up to *5 MB* on the computer's hard drive to function all the features of Parrot IM that includes storing users' profile and their preference, sound notification, and images. <br> Memory Requirements = The program will occupy between *30 MB* and *50 MB* of RAM while running. ||
|| Security || All stored passwords are encrypted inside the database. (Encryption not implemented yet) ||

= Example Tutorials =
We have added new user tutorials here:

  * [NewTutorial_CreateAccount (new)How to create an account?]
  * [NewTutorial_LogIn (new)How to log in?]
  * [NewTutorial_Chat (new)How to chat?]
  * [NewTutorial_Exit (new)How to exit Parrot IM?]
  * [NewTutorial_ManageBuddyList   How to manage Friend list?]

= Glossary =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].