#summary Requirements Document: a user manual that is useful for both end-users and system designers

= Introduction =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].

= Features =

Below is the list of features and indications of progress.

[Feature_GUI Graphical Graphical User Interface]: No change. Implemented.

[Feature_FriendList Friend List]: The Friend List is currently set to show the online status of the user, and indicates whether the friends are away, busy, offline, or blocked. The list is sorted alphabetically, but users that are more online than others receive higher priority at the top of the list. We do not have search function yet. GUI is provided. 

[Feature_LiveInstantMessaging Live Instant Messaging]: Implemented. Currently can bring up a chat window and use tabbed chatting to select between open conversations. Users can send and receive messages.

[Feature_XMPP XMPP Protocol]: Google Talk and Twitter functionality implemented. Jabber functionality is enabled, but not fully supported yet.

[Feature_Chatbot Chatbot]: To enable or disable Chatbot is in the Contact menu, not in the chatWindow. Implemented. The chatbot currently is able to use either a customized chatbot questions and answers or a set with a list of common phrases to generate responses for. There is no way to customize the messages, yet.

[Feature_ProfileSystem Profile System]: Implemented. Can add multiple accounts to the profile. Changes are saved in the database. 

[Feature_FontCustomization Font Customization]: GUI elements have been implemented, but it is not functional yet. This is due to XMPP not supporting fonts being sent to buddies.

[Feature_AutoSignIn Auto Sign In]: Users are able to flexibly auto sign in upon launching the program.

[Feature_AvatarPicture Avatar picture]: Implemented for XMPP Protocol. Users can select the image file on their computer by clicking on the current avatar. 

[Feature_TabbedWindows Tabbed Windows]: No change. Implemented. Users can click on tabs on the left-hand side of the chat window to toggle between open conversations.

[Feature_BlockingAnotherUser Blocking Another User]: Implemented via a work-around. While the proper method of blocking users via XMPP is not adhered to, we have devised a way to achieve the same effect of blocking a user on one computer. The user is technically removed from the friend list, but is stored in the local computer's database. This allows the GUI to show that the user has been blocked, and allow for the user to be unblocked easily. The blocked user cannot see the online status of the person who blocked him or her.

[Feature_Status Status]: Implemented. Users can set their status and state, and see the status of others on the buddy list. The states are colour coded on both the buddy list and the chat window so the user can quickly know how available their friend is.

[Feature_ChatLog Chat Log]: No change. Implemented and searchable.

[Feature_SearchEngine Search Engine]: GUI is able to provide both a buddylist and Google Searching Capability upon users input in the text field. 

[Feature_TwitterAndICQProtocols Twitter and ICQ Protocols]: Twitter implemented.

[Feature_IsTyping Is Typing]: Users are able to send signals to other users to indicate "Is Typing" and also receive the signals.

[Feature_Emoticons Emoticons]: Users are free to choose any emoticons from the Parrot Emoticion Button.

[Feature_Spellchecker Spellchecker]: Spell Checker currently only supports English language.

[Feature_ConferenceChatting Conference Chatting]: Not yet implemented however users are  able to create a conference to room and invite users to join and start a conference chatting.

[Feature_FileTransfer File Transfer]: Users are able to send a file to another users that is less than 60 KB.

[Feature_SoundNotification Sound Notification]: Sounds are notified whenever the user logs in, exit, receive a message, and adds a friend.

[Feature_UICustomization UICustomization]: Users are allowed to choose their own theme for the Graphical User Interface.

[Feature_AdditionalProtocolModules Additional Protocol Modules]: Not implement yet.

[Feature_OfflineMessaging Offline Messaging]: Implemented by means of the XMPP protocol. No specific GUI messages show to indicate which messages are offline messages, though.

[Feature_AdvancedAndSimplifiedModes Advanced And Simplified Modes]: The switch is not implemented yet.

[Feature_SpamFilter Spam Filter]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_MultipleOSCompatibility Multiple OS Compatibility]: Packaging not designed to install on all OSs, but will run via a .jar file on Mac, Windows, and Linux.

[Feature_LanguageLocalization Language Localization]: Not implemented yet.

[Feature_EmailNotification Email Notification]: Not implemented yet. However, users are able to send a bug report to the Parrot IM software engineers.

[Feature_SlashCommands Slash Commands]: Not implemented yet.

= Intended Audience =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].

= Non-Functional Requirements =

Noted are only the changed non-functional requirements:

=== Product Requirements ===
  * *Performance Requirements:* The program will occupy between *30 MB* and *50 MB* of RAM while running.

(Rest unchanged.)

=== Organizational Requirements === 
  * *Process Standards:* Conventions detailed on the Parrot IM website will be followed with regards to naming and style conventions.

(Rest unchanged.)

=== External requirements === 

(All unchanged)

Metrics for specifying non-functional requirements:

=== The Non-functional Requirements Table ===
|| Property || Measure ||
|| Size || Hard disk Requirements = The program will take up to *5 MB* on the computer's hard drive to function all the features of Parrot IM that includes storing users' profile and their preference, sound notification, and images. <br> Memory Requirements = The program will occupy between *30 MB* and *50 MB* of RAM while running. ||
|| Security || All stored passwords are encrypted inside the database. (Encryption not implemented yet) ||

= Example Tutorials =
We have added new user tutorials here:

  [http://sites.google.com/site/parrotimhelp/Home Parrot IM Tutorial Guide]
  

= Glossary =

We did not make any changes to this section. Please view the [RequirementsDocument previous document].