== Vision Statement: ==
To create a new, easy-to-use, fun, and feature-rich instant messaging program that is compatible with multiple protocols, including XMPP, to target any age and audience. Our program hopes to provide a simple yet powerful communication client program that would allow many users to enjoy their conversation in everyday life.


== Architectural Diagram: ==



== List of Features ( > 30): ==
 * *GUI* - friendly graphical user interface that allows the users to interact with the program with their keyboard and mouse.
 * *Chatbot* - allows users to enable an auto-reply message that is designed to simulate an intelligent conversation with other human users. 
 * *XMPP Protocol* - the same protocol as Google Talk has used. Several servers and clients have support for this. Anyone can setup their own IM network using a XMPP server.
 * *Tabbed Windows* - collapse multiple conversations into a single window separated into tabs. 
 * *Friend List* - tracks the list of users' friends, family, co-workers, and associates in an organized manner
 * *To view our complete features:* [http://code.google.com/p/parrot-im/wiki/UnderConstruction?ts=1241895172&updated=UnderConstruction click here.]


== Scope of Phased Release: ==
 * *Alpha:* Basic Protocol Program capable of person-to-person chatting, presence information, and simple GUI interfaces.
 * *Beta* -
 * *Final* -
 


== Features that will not be implemented: ==
<br>
*Note* - Please feel free to add any more features that will not be implemented in our software.
 * *Multiple Language Selection* - to minimize the complicated implementation and ensure that our software can be run on any system. As mentioned in the _problem description_, the programmers are assuming that English-speaking users use the program.
 * *Multiple Computer Platforms Compatibility* - to maximize the efficiency in Windows Operating System (especially, the CMPT 275 lecture's computer).
 * *Webcam Chat* - to eliminate the low video quality and minimize the hardware requirements for using our software.